are@=be
am@=be
ahead@=bow
avoid@=give a wide berth
avoided@=gave a wide berth
avoids@=gives a wide berth
avoiding@=giving a wide berth
front@=bow
behind@=stern
back@=stern
north@=bow
south@=stern
east@=starboard
west@=larboard
ass@=booty
asses@=bootys
accent@=funny piratey blabbering
janitor@=swabby
janitors@=swabbies
butt@=booty
butts@=bootys
around@=about
artifact@=buried treasure
artifacts@=buried treasures
is@=be
astronomical@=nautical
alcohol@=rum
back@=stern
bee@=adorable airlubber
bees@=adorable airlubbers
booze@=grog
bolt@=batten
box@=coffer
boxes@=coffers
unbolt@=unbatten
open@=unbatten
bolted@=battened
unbolted@=unbattened
break@=scuttle
broke@=scuttled
boss@=cap'n
breaking@=skuttling
cairngorm@=mockingbird
cap@=cap'n
captain@=cap'n
catwalk@=rigging
canbomb@=powder keg
clean@=swab
mop@=swab
clown@=scallywag
clowns@=scallywags
mime@=quiet scallywag
mimes@=quiet scallywags
crate@=treasure chest
crates@=treasure chests
credit@=doubloon
credits@=doubloons
chef@=ship's cook
chefs@=ship's cooks
correct@=savvy
dead@=sleeping with the fishes
die@=walk the plank
died@=walked the plank
dies@=walks the plank
death@=plank walking
dice@=bones
door@=hatch
doors@=hatches
damn@=darn
dammit@=darnit
drunk@=squiffy
explode@=blow to smithereens
exploded@=was blown to smithereens
foot@=fathom
feet@=fathoms
for@=fer
fight@=scuffle
food@=provisions
friend@=hearty
friends@=heartys
flock@=glowy seagulls
flockmind@=glowy seagulls
buddy@=hearty
buddies@=hearties
floor@=deck
floors@=decks
floortile@=deckboard
floortiles@=deckboards
fuck@=shiver me timbers
gear@=loot
ghost@=lost soul of the sea
ghosts@=lost souls of the sea
gibbed@=blown to smithereens
gib@=blow to smithereens
god@=neptune
gods@=gods of the sea
godamn@=neptunedarn
godammit@=neptunedarnit
guy@=matey
gal@=matey
give@=hand over
dude@=matey
gun@=flintlock
guns@=flintlocks
hall@=poopdeck
hallway@=poopdeck
ha@=arg
haha@=argarg
hahaha@=argargarg
hell@=davy jones' locker
hurry@=bear a hand
i'm@=i be
im@=i be
in@=aboard
idiot@=landlubber
imposter@=stowaway
jail@=brig
prison@=brigs
jerk@=landlubber
jerks@=landlubbers
lol@=arg arg arg
lmao@=arg arg arg
here@='ere
hello@=ahoy
hey@=hoy
hi@=ahoy
hiya@=ahoy
greetings@=ahoy
kill@=keelhaul
killed@=keelhauled
leave@=set sail
is@=be
law@=code of conduct
laws@=codes of conduct
leg@=peg leg
legs@=peg legs
left@=larboard
maint@=below deck
maintenance@=below deck
my@=me
map@=treasure map
magboots@=anchorshoes
medbay@=the ship's ward
mercury@=quicksilver
med@=the ship's ward
mile@=nautical mile
mine@=spelunk
mining@=spelunking
miner@=spelunker
miners@=spelunkers
monster@=seamonster
monster@=seamonsters
nerd@=landlubber
nerds@=landlubbers
nukeop@=nuclear boarding party
op@=boarding party
operative@=boarding party
of@=o'
office@=quarters
person@=sailor
people@=sailors
pod@=sloop
pods@=sloops
podbay@=ship dock
port@=larboard
quickly@=with haste
r@=arr
rev@=mutineer
revolution@=mutiny
revolutionary@=mutineer
headrev@=head mutineer
robust@=swashbucklin'
robusted@=swashbuckled
right@=starboard
scientist@=cartographer
scientists@=cartographers
science@=cartogragphy
see@=spy
sees@=spies
sec@=navy
secass@=powder monkey
security@=navy
hos@=head of the navy
saw@=spied
space@=sea
smart@=savvy
should@=ought to
shouldn't@=oughtn't to
shouldnt@=oughtnt to
shuttle@=rowboat
shuttles@=rowboats
staff@=crew
stop@=avast
stuck@=marooned
steal@=plunder
stole@=plundered
theft@=plunder
thief@=pirate
sus@=fickle as the sea
saber@=cutlass
song@=chantey
songs@=chanetys
spaced@=overboard
spear@=harpoon
spears@=harpoons
speak@=do parlay
speaks@=does parlay
spoke@=do parlay
switch@=lever
music@=chantey
talk@=blabber
talking@=blabbering
talked@=blabbered
tank@=ballast
tanks@=ballasts
their@=thar
they're@=thar
theyre@=thar
theres@=thar be
there's@=thar be
this@=this here
that@=that thar
those@=them
tox@=scurvy
toxin@=sccurvy
there@=thar
ttv@=powder bomb
traitor@=turncoat
traitors@=turncoats
understood@=aye aye
csaber@=c-cutlass
sword@=cutlass
katana@=sharp cutlass
yes@=aye
ye@=aye
yup@=aye
yep@=aye
you@=ye
water@=sea water
window@=porthole
windows@=portholes
won't@=shan't
wont@=shant
who's@=who be
whos@=who be